docs: Add plotly.js v4 migration guide (#455)
plotly/graphing-library-docs: _posts/plotly_js/guides/whats-new-in-v4/2026-07-20-whats-new-in-v4.md

`unselected` marker attributes and appears in the modebar selection buttons
like other cartesian traces.

### Example: wind field

A larger example showing arrows colored by magnitude:

![Vector wind field visualization with arrows colored by speed](/all_static/images/whats-new-in-v4/quiver_wind.png)

---

## Share with Plotly Cloud

*Implemented in [#7802](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7802),
[#7852](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7852),
[#7854](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7854), and
[#7909](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7909).*

Plotly.js now offers a modebar button, labelled "Share chart…", which sends the
current chart to [Plotly Cloud](https://cloud.plotly.com) to generate a shareable
link. Sharing the chart opens Plotly Cloud in a new tab, where you can copy the
sharing link and adjust visibility settings. A Plotly Cloud account is required.

The button is enabled by default in v4:

![The "Share chart…" modebar button](/all_static/images/whats-new-in-v4/share_with_plotly_cloud_button.png)

Clicking the button brings up a confirmation dialog, which names the destination

> and offers **Cancel** and **Share**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking the button brings up a dialog confirming the sharing destination:
```

![The "Share chart" confirmation dialog](/all_static/images/whats-new-in-v4/share_with_plotly_cloud_dialog.png)

### Config

The button is controlled by two config options:

| Config option | Default | Purpose |
|---|---|---|
| `showSendToCloud` | `true` | Whether the "Share chart…" modebar button is rendered. |

> | `plotlyServerURL` | `'https://cloud.plotly.com/newchart'` | The endpoint the button posts to. Override to point at a self-hosted or alternate server. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `plotlyServerURL` | `'https://cloud.plotly.com/newchart'` | The endpoint the button posts to. Override to point at an alternate server. |
```

---
description: Full details on new features and breaking changes in Plotly.js version 4.
display_as: guide
language: plotly_js
layout: base
name: What's New in Plotly.js v4
order: 1
page_type: u-guide
permalink: javascript/guides/whats-new-in-v4/
sitemap: false
thumbnail: thumbnail/mixed.jpg
---

> # What's New in Plotly.js v4

Reviewer 2: Should any of this content be added to other pages in the docs? OR is there not any existing pages any of this information could go into?

Author: Is there a specific section you're thinking of? I haven't dug through the docs to see if anything needs to be updated/augmented, but that seems like a good next step.

Author: My most recent commits have added pages for new features.

- [Country name lookup](#country-name-lookup)
- [Scattermap icon defaults](#scattermap-icon-defaults)
- [Geo `fitbounds` framing for antimeridian features](#geo-fitbounds-framing-for-antimeridian-features)
- [Sankey layout algorithm update](#sankey-layout-algorithm-update)

**Removed**

- [Chart Studio APIs removed](#chart-studio-apis-removed)
- [Mapbox traces and subplots removed](#mapbox-traces-and-subplots-removed)

**Requirements**

- [Minimum Node.js version](#minimum-nodejs-version)

---

## Quiver trace type

*Implemented in [#7710](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7710).*

Plotly.js now ships a `quiver` trace type for visualizing 2D vector fields as
arrays of arrows. Arrows are placed at `(x, y)` coordinates and drawn with
direction and magnitude from `(u, v)` components.

```js
Plotly.newPlot(gd, [{
    type: 'quiver',
    x: [0, 1, 2, 0, 1, 2],
    y: [0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1],
    u: [1, 0.5, 0, 0.5, 0, -0.5],
    v: [0, 0.5, 1, 0.5, 1, 0.5]
}]);
```

![Simple 6-arrow quiver with per-arrow coloring](/all_static/images/whats-new-in-v4/quiver_simple.png)

### Positioning and sizing

| Attribute | Values | Purpose |
|---|---|---|

> | `x`, `y` | numeric arrays | Arrow anchor positions. `x0` + `dx` / `y0` + `dy` shorthand also supported for regular grids. |

Reviewer 3: `x0` + `dx` / `y0` + `dy` implies that `u` and `v` could be 2D arrays? And then perhaps `x` and `y` could be as well? If so it's a great feature and we should state that explicitly. If not, what's the point of `x0` + `dx` / `y0` + `dy`?

Reviewer: @alexcjohnson The second sentence on line 83 is a hallucination. Good catch. `x0` + `dx` cannot be used at the same time as `y0` + `dy`.

Same as scatter, `x0` + `dx` can only be used if `y` is provided, and vice-versa.

I'm not particularly attached to including them at all, they're mostly there for consistency with scatter and because they were trivial to include.

Reviewer 3: I'd take it out of the docs entirely then. If people find it in its current form fine, we can leave it in and it won't conflict with later additions, but it'll only be useless in rare cases. Its real power would come from allowing `u` and `v` to be 2D arrays, in which case `x` and `y` could either also be 2D or one or both could be omitted and replaced by `x0` + `dx` etc, like you can do for heatmaps and contour maps.

Author: I'll remove that sentence.

> | `x`, `y` | numeric arrays | Arrow anchor positions. `x0` + `dx` / `y0` + `dy` shorthand also supported for regular grids. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `x`, `y` | numeric arrays | Arrow anchor positions. |
```

Author: Updated.

    marker: {
        color: [/* one value per arrow */],
        colorscale: 'Viridis',
        showscale: true
    }
}
```

### Selection

Quiver supports box and lasso selection through the standard `selected` /
`unselected` marker attributes and appears in the modebar selection buttons
like other cartesian traces.

### Example: wind field

A larger example showing arrows colored by magnitude:

![Vector wind field visualization with arrows colored by speed](/all_static/images/whats-new-in-v4/quiver_wind.png)

---

## Share with Plotly Cloud

*Implemented in [#7802](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7802),
[#7852](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7852),
[#7854](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7854), and
[#7909](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7909).*

Plotly.js can now share the current figure to
[Plotly Cloud](https://cloud.plotly.com) from a one-click modebar button.
The button posts the figure's data and layout to `cloud.plotly.com` and
returns a shareable URL — the successor to the old Chart Studio upload
flow, but without the Chart Studio-specific config surface (`showLink`,
`sendData`, `showSources`, etc. — those are all gone; see

> [Chart Studio APIs removed](#chart-studio-apis-removed)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plotly.js now offers a modebar button which sends the current chart to [Plotly Cloud](https://cloud.plotly.com) to generate a shareable link. Sharing the chart opens Plotly Cloud in a new tab, where you can copy the sharing link and adjust visibility settings. A Plotly Cloud account is required.
```

Author: Updated.

The button is enabled by default in v4:

![Share with Plotly Cloud button](/all_static/images/whats-new-in-v4/share_with_plotly_cloud_button.png)

Clicking the button brings up the share dialog:

![Share with Plotly Cloud dialog](/all_static/images/whats-new-in-v4/share_with_plotly_cloud_dialog.png)

### Config

The button is controlled by two config options:

| Config option | Default | Purpose |
|---|---|---|
| `showSendToCloud` | `true` | Whether the "Share with Plotly Cloud" modebar button is rendered. |
| `plotlyServerURL` | `'cloud.plotly.com'` | The endpoint the button posts to. Override to point at a self-hosted or alternate server. |

The button's internal name (in `modeBarButtonsToAdd`, event handlers, etc.)
is `sendChartToCloud`. In v3 both `sendChartToCloud` and the alias
`sendDataToCloud` worked; in v4 the alias is removed — code that referred to
the button by the `sendDataToCloud` name needs to be updated.

> ### Opting out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed.

Hide the button by setting `showSendToCloud: false`:

```js
Plotly.newPlot(gd, data, layout, {
    showSendToCloud: false
});
```

Or point the upload at a different host:

```js
Plotly.newPlot(gd, data, layout, {
    plotlyServerURL: 'https://my-plotly-mirror.example.com'
});

> ```

Reviewer: There's not yet a practical reason to do this, so I suggest we leave this part out.

```suggestion
```

Author: Removed.

### Endpoint status

> The `cloud.plotly.com` endpoint is **not yet functional at the v4 release**.

Reviewer 3: Awkward... make sure we remove this section as soon as it's live.

Reviewer: It wasn't live at the time these docs were drafted, but it's live now. This should be removed.

Author: Removed.

The button renders and is wired up, but clicking it does not complete an
upload until the endpoint is deployed. Once it goes live, existing figures
running v4 with the default config will start supporting uploads without

> any code change on the caller side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done.

### History

The upload flow was built out across the Plotly.js 3.7 series
(#7802 / #7852 / #7854), but shipped with `showSendToCloud` defaulting to
`false`, so unless you set the flag manually you never saw the button.
v4 (#7909) flips the default so every new figure exposes it by default —

> this is a functional feature reveal, not a new API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed.

---

## MathJax v4 support

*Implemented in [#7898](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7898).*

Plotly.js now supports **MathJax v3 and v4** for rendering LaTeX in labels,
titles, annotations, and hover text. Support for **MathJax v2 has been
dropped** — figures that rely on a v2 bundle will no longer render their math

> expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plotly.js now supports **MathJax v3 and v4** for rendering LaTeX in labels,
titles, and annotations. Support for **MathJax v2 has been
dropped**.
```

Author: Updated.

MathJax v3 and v4 share the same rendering syntax, so Plotly no longer needs
version-specific code paths internally. Beyond dropping v2, the internal

> `svg_text_utils.js` rewrite makes math rendering somewhat faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Math rendering should also be somewhat faster due to some internal changes.
```

Author: I opted to just delete this section. It's not very valuable if we can't quantify it and I don't want to put in the work to do that.

### What to do

- Loading MathJax v2 in the page? Upgrade to v3 or v4. The tex-svg build is

>   the one Plotly integrates with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Loading MathJax v2 in the page? Upgrade to v3 or v4. Plotly math rendering uses the tex-svg component (`tex-svg.js`):
```

Author: Updated.

  ```html
  <!-- v3 (still supported) -->
  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3.2.2/es5/tex-svg.js"></script>
  <!-- or v4 (new) -->
  <script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@4/tex-svg.js"></script>
  ```

> - Already on v3? No action required — your math expressions continue to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `?config=TeX-AMS-MML_SVG` URL suffix (used with MathJax v2) is no longer required starting with v3. Configuration is specified by linking directly to the desired JavaScript file, which is `tex-svg.js` in our case.

Already on v3? No action required — your math expressions continue to
```

Author: Updated.

  render.

> - On v4 already? No action required either.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed.

### Call sites unchanged

Plotly's public API for math (using `$…$` in text attributes) is unchanged.
The version negotiation happens inside Plotly at runtime — the correct

> rendering path is chosen based on what MathJax exposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed.

streaming service, which is no longer reachable. If you have figures
containing `stream: { token: '...', maxpoints: N }` in their trace objects,
delete those properties — they're now schema-rejected.

### Removed data-source (`*src`) attributes

*See [#7829](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7829).*

Every schema attribute ending in `src` (`xsrc`, `ysrc`, `textsrc`,
`marker.colorsrc`, ...) has been removed, along with `layout.hidesources`.
These existed only to interoperate with Chart Studio's data-source
references, which is no longer reachable. If your figures contain any
`*src` attributes or `hidesources`, delete them — they're now schema-rejected.

### `Plots.graphJson()` signature simplified

*See [#7829](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7829).*

`Plotly.Plots.graphJson()` previously accepted a `mode` argument that was
Chart Studio–specific. It has been dropped:

```js
// Before
const json = Plotly.Plots.graphJson(gd, opts, mode);

// After
const json = Plotly.Plots.graphJson(gd, opts);
```

If you were passing the third argument (typically `'keepdata'` or
`'keepall'`), remove it — that behavior was only meaningful when uploading

> to Chart Studio.

Reviewer: This function isn't even really part of the public API, so I'd suggest removing this section entirely. Any devs using this function can track down the reference in the changelog.

```suggestion
```

Author: That's fair. I'll remove it.

---

## Mapbox traces and subplots removed

*Implemented in [#7860](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7860).*

The legacy mapbox-gl-js–based traces and subplot type have been removed. The
MapLibre-based `map` family that has shadowed them since v2 is now the only
map implementation. For deeper background on the switch, see [Mapbox to

> MapLibre migration](https://plotly.com/python/mapbox-to-maplibre/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The legacy Mapbox–based traces and subplot type have been removed. The
equivalent MapLibre-based `map` traces, first released in plotly.js v3, are now the only
map implementation. For more information, see [Mapbox to
MapLibre migration](https://plotly.com/python/mapbox-to-maplibre/).
```

Author: Updated.

### Removed

| Removed | Replacement |
|---|---|
| `scattermapbox` trace | `scattermap` |
| `choroplethmapbox` trace | `choroplethmap` |
| `densitymapbox` trace | `densitymap` |
| `layout.mapbox` subplot (and `mapbox2`, `mapbox3`, …) | `layout.map` (and `map2`, `map3`, …) |
| `layout.mapbox.accesstoken` | None — MapLibre uses open tile providers |
| `mapboxAccessToken` config option | None — see above |
| `plotly-mapbox.min.js` partial bundle | `plotly-map.min.js` |
| Modebar buttons `zoomInMapbox`, `zoomOutMapbox`, `resetViewMapbox` | `zoomInMap`, `zoomOutMap`, `resetViewMap` |
| `scrollZoom` flag value `'mapbox'` (e.g. `scrollZoom: 'mapbox+cartesian'`) | `'map'` |

The schema for `map` mirrors `mapbox` attribute-for-attribute (`domain`,
`style`, `center`, `zoom`, `bearing`, `pitch`, `bounds`, `layers[...]`), so

> the migration is usually a rename.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The attributes for `map` traces are identical to those of `mapbox` traces, so
updating the trace name is all that's required to migrate.
```

Author: Updated

```js
// Before
{
    data: [{ type: 'scattermapbox', lon: [...], lat: [...] }],
    layout: {
        mapbox: {
            style: 'open-street-map',
            center: { lon: 0, lat: 0 },
            zoom: 2,
        },
    },
    config: { mapboxAccessToken: 'pk.eyJ1...' },
}

// After
{
    data: [{ type: 'scattermap', lon: [...], lat: [...] }],
    layout: {
        map: {
            style: 'open-street-map',
            center: { lon: 0, lat: 0 },
            zoom: 2,
        },
    },
    // mapboxAccessToken removed — MapLibre needs no token for the

>     // built-in styles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // mapboxAccessToken no longer required
```

Author: Updated.

}
```

### Built-in style values

Every built-in `style` name that worked on `mapbox` still works on `map`, but
the tiles backing them differ — visual output **will change** even when no

> other figure changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every built-in `style` value supported for `mapbox` traces works for `map` traces as well,
but the tile providers for some styles have changed. In those cases, the visual appearance
of the map will differ:
```

Author: Updated.

| Style name | Old (`mapbox`) | New (`map`) |
|---|---|---|
| `basic`, `streets`, `outdoors` | mapbox.com vector tiles (required token) | Carto Voyager |
| `light` | mapbox.com light | Carto Positron |
| `dark` | mapbox.com dark | Carto Dark Matter |
| `satellite`, `satellite-streets` | mapbox.com satellite | ArcGIS World Imagery |
| `white-bg`, `open-street-map` | unchanged | unchanged |

> | `carto-*`, `carto-*-nolabels` | n/a (already open) | unchanged |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `'basic'`, `'streets'`, `'outdoors'` | mapbox.com 'basic' / 'streets' / 'outdoors'  tiles | [Carto](https://carto.com/basemaps/) Voyager |
| `'light'` | mapbox.com 'light' tiles | [Carto](https://carto.com/basemaps/) Positron |
| `'dark'` | mapbox.com 'dark' tiles | [Carto](https://carto.com/basemaps/) Dark Matter |
| `'satellite'`, `satellite-streets` | mapbox.com satellite tiles | ArcGIS World Imagery |
| `'white-bg'` | solid white background | unchanged |
| `'open-street-map'` | [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org) tiles | unchanged |
| `carto-*`, `carto-*-nolabels` | Corresponding [Carto](https://carto.com/basemaps/) tiles | unchanged |
```

Author: Updated.

The three Stamen styles (`stamen-terrain`, `stamen-toner`,
`stamen-watercolor`) are gone — Stamen tiles now require a Stadia API key.

> Users who need them can supply a custom `style` URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The three Stamen style values (`stamen-terrain`, `stamen-toner`, `stamen-watercolor`)
are no longer supported, since Stamen tiles require a Stadia API key. It is still possible to use
Stamen tiles, or any other third-party tiles, by passing a URL to a JSON style definition to `style`.
```

Author: Updated.

### Custom style URLs

Custom MapLibre / Mapbox-style JSON URLs continue to work. The
`mapbox://styles/mapbox/...` short form is no longer resolved, since it
requires authenticating to mapbox.com. Substitute the full URL of an

> equivalent open style, or self-host the style JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting `style` to the URL of a MapLibre / Mapbox-style JSON style definition is still supported.
Custom Mapbox URLs of the form `mapbox://styles/mapbox/...` are no longer supported, since they
requires authenticating to mapbox.com.
```

Author: Updated.

---

## Minimum Node.js version

*Implemented in [#7861](https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/pull/7861).*

> Plotly.js now requires Node.js v22 or newer. The previous floor was v18, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plotly.js now requires Node.js v22 or newer. The previous minimum was v18, which
```

Author: Updated.

has reached end-of-life.

This only affects you if:

| Scenario | Why |
|---|---|
| You build Plotly.js from source | Contributors and custom bundles |
| You run Plotly.js in a Node.js runtime | Server-side rendering via jsdom, validation scripts, image export pipelines, etc. |
| You install via `yarn` or `pnpm` | Both enforce `engines` strictly (`npm` prints a warning but installs) |

Consumers who only load the pre-built browser bundle (`plotly.min.js` or a
partial bundle like `plotly-basic.min.js`) are unaffected — the bundle runs in

> browsers, not Node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consumers who only load the pre-built browser bundle (`plotly.min.js` or a
partial bundle like `plotly-basic.min.js`) are unaffected.
```

Author: Updated.
